Let's go create some Action Creators.
So, outside reducer,
we're gonna create another folder.
Called action.
Creators.
Okay, these are not purely necessary,
but I would suggest doing them as well.
They're basically functions that
take in some parameter, and
then they return the correct
shape of action.
So let me give you an example here,
we have one let's do this for
change theme.js.
And it's another function that
you just export default function.
Change theme, this takes in a theme, and
it returns an object that
looks like an action.
So the type is going to be.
Change theme, and
the payload is going to be the theme.
Pretty simple.
Now, I can see you putting all of
your action creators on one file,
because obviously these are quite short.
Or you can put them in multiple files.
In this particular case,
I put them in multiple files, but
that's totally up to you.
So let's make another new file and
we're gonna have to do the same
thing here, change animal.js.
And let's just again, these are really
very similar over and over again.
Change animal, Animal,
change animal.
So these ones were all keeping
track of very simple strings, but
you can imagine they can
have pretty complicated.
Let's say we had an animation and
those animations were modifying
various different parts of like.
All right, this is now true, that this has
gone through this animation, it's false.
It started this one and, this should
be green now and they should be pink,
and so, one action, can trigger five
different state trees to change, right?
And so that's why,
it's important that we have these kind of,
there's not always a one to one mapping,
I guess what I'm trying to say.
Okay, new file, change theme.
All right did that one.
Let's do change breed.js
Breed, breed, breed, okay,
one more action creator here.
Change, animal, breed, theme, location.
And location, all right,
now we have all of our
action creators,
now we're able to dispatch.
These I guess actions to the,
to ready to dispatch them to redux.
Okay, now, yeah,
we'll talk about here in just a second.
So now,
all of our redux stuff is ready to go.
We are going to, now go integrate that
to our application, so go to App.js.
And here, we're going to,
import provider,
from react-redux.
And we're going to import,
the store from ./store.
So first of all,
we're not using the theme anymore.
We're gonna put that in redux,
so we're gonna delete that.
We're gonna delete the theme context
because we're gonna be done with
that as well.
You can delete the theme
context component here.
And instead of that, we're gonna
have a provider, with store=store.
And now, actually using react
context ironically, now,
this provider is providing our redux
store, to all of our application.
Now we can start reading and
writing from redux.
All right, so
let's go to search params.j.s now.
And at the top, we're going to delete
context and the use context here,
because we're not going to use that
anymore, as well as that line here.
Underneath breeds that I had here,
this theme, set theme,
we're going to delete that.
And.
Now we're going to get something from,
react-redux called useSelector,
from react-redux.
So this is another hook, it's relatively
new actually for react redux.
And we're gonna get,
instead of using state here from this, and
theme, so go ahead and delete,
animal, location and breed.
And this is going to be
const animal= useSelector,
and it takes in state and
returns, state.animal.
So, basically you give it
a function as like all right,
given the entire state tree.
What do I need to do to get just
that bare minimum out here?
And I'll do the same for location.
For theme, And for breed.
Now, one of you might astutely ask,
couldn't I just pull them all out at once?
You definitely could, in fact,
an easy way you could do that would be,
const, animal, breed, location, theme, and
you could do that through
=useSelectorstate,
like just return the entire thing, right?
This would work as well.
The only thing that I'll
suggest against this is like,
sometimes your redux
stores can be enormous and
it's actually probably better sometimes to
operate those enormous stores like this.
But, this doesn't offend me either,
it's up to you.
Okay, and now,
this is reading from our redux store.
With hooks that became incredibly
easy to use from redux, right,
because you have the provider
which has the redux store on it.
And this useSelector hook,
is actually reading from that store,
from the provider.
So let's actually start our app.
I think we've broken some things,
but this should at least start up.
So I think this is pretty clean, once you
actually get redux in place and working,
it's pretty clean to look at.
So let's go to local host 1234.
Did I break something else?
Can't exhale local lexical declaration.
That was, my problem, go to store.js, and
I put store here, not reducer.
So on line 2, make sure you,
should be reduced to here not store.
Right because, you can't provide store
to itself that would make any sense.
You have, you give store the route
reducer, and that's how it gets started.
So again, line 5, that should be reducer.
Okay, and now, you can see here,
Seattle, Washington, dog, Havanese,
dark blue, all those things that we,
the new defaults that we set in there.
That's why we're only seeing Luna now,
right?
Because that's the only one that's,
coming back from the store.
However, try and change them now.
It is not working, why?
We have the same problem before is that,
the redux store is being read from, but
it's not being written back to, right?
So I read from, going back to,
let's see we are in search params.
We're reading from,
our state to get state.animal but
where's it being written back to,
it's not, right.
So that's a problem, we have to
actually write back to our store.
So let's go into,
how do we dispatch actions.